update geometry/pick (#98)
OI-wiki/i18n: docs/geometry/pick.md

## Pick's theorem

> Pick's theorem: Given a simple polygon whose vertex coordinates are all integral points, Pick’s theorem proves the relationship between its area ${\displaystyle A}$ , the number of internal points ${\displaystyle i}$ , and the number of points on the edge ${\displaystyle b}$ : ${\displaystyle A=i+{\frac {b}{2}}-1}$ .

Author: ```suggestion
Pick's theorem: Given A simple polygon whose vertices are all integral points, Pick’s theorem proves the relationship between its area ${\displaystyle A}$ , the number of internal points ${\displaystyle i}$ , and the number of points on the edge ${\displaystyle b}$ : ${\displaystyle A=i+{\frac {b}{2}}-1}$ .
```

Specific proof: [Pick's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pick%27s_theorem) 

> It has the following properties:

Author: properties? 🤔

Reviewer: [generalize](https://research.steinhardt.nyu.edu/scmsAdmin/media/users/xr1/glossaries/Math/Grades6to8/ms_6_8_math_chinesesimplified.pdf)
From Page 6.

- The area of the graph composed of grid points is one unit. Pick's theorem still stands for parallelogram grid. For any triangle lattice, Pick's theorem is ${\displaystyle A=2 \times i+b-2}$ .

- For non-simple polygons ${\displaystyle P}$ , Pick’s theorem ${\displaystyle A=i+{\frac {b}{2}}-\chi (P)}$ , where ${\displaystyle \chi ( P))$ represents the **Euler characteristic** of $(\displaystyle P)$ .

- Higher-dimensional: Ehrhart polynomials.
- Pick's theorem is equivalent to Euler's formula ( ${\displaystyle V-E+F=2}$ ).

## Sample problem (POJ 1265)

### Topic

Given a simple polygon on a plane, find the points on the side, inside the polygon, and the area of the polygon.

### Solution

> This topic has applied the following three key points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic includes the following three key points:
```

> This topic has applied the following three key points:

Author: 知识点这里觉得可以用key points..(waiting for better phrase

> - For a line segment with a grid point as vertex, the number of points covered is $\gcd(dx,dy)$ , where $dx, dy$ are the number of points occupied by the line segment horizontally and vertically. If $dx$ or $dy$ is $0$ , the number of points covered is $dy$ **or** $dx$ .

Reviewer: dx dy \textit, thx~

> - For a line segment with an integral point as vertex, the number of points covered is \textit{gcd(dx,dy)} , where \textit{dx, dy} are the number of points occupied by the line segment horizontally and vertically. If \textit{dx} or \textit{dy} is $0$ , the number of points covered is \textit{dy} **or** \textit{dx} .

Author: ```suggestion
- For a line segment with an integral point as vertex, the number of points covered is $\gcd(\textit{dx},\textit{dy})$ , where $\textit{dx},\textit{dy}$ are the number of points occupied by the line segment horizontally and vertically. If $\textit{dx}$ or $\textit{dy}$ is $0$ , the number of points covered is $\textit{dy}$ **or** $\textit{dx}$ .
```

> - For a line segment with an integral point as vertex, the number of points covered is \textit{gcd(dx,dy)} , where \textit{dx, dy} are the number of points occupied by the line segment horizontally and vertically. If \textit{dx} or \textit{dy} is $0$ , the number of points covered is \textit{dy} **or** \textit{dx} .

Reviewer: 这里按[这个](https://github.com/OI-wiki/OI-wiki/pull/2632)改？

> - Pick's theorem: The area of a simple polygon with lattice points as vertices on the plane = the number of points on the side/2 + the number of internal points + 1.

Reviewer: on the edge?
格子点统一integral point(s)/grid point(s)？

Author: integral points 👍

> - For a line segment with an integral point as vertex, the number of points covered is $\gcd(\textit{dx},\textit{dy})$ , where $\textit{dx},\textit{dy}$ are the number of points occupied by the line segment horizontally and vertically. If $\textit{dx}$ or $\textit{dy}$ is $0$ , the number of points covered is $\textit{dy}$ **or** $\textit{dx}$ .
> - Pick's theorem: The area of a simple polygon with integral points as vertices on the plane = the number of points on the edge/2 + the number of internal points + 1.
> - The area of any polygon is equal to finding the sum of the cross product of the vector composed of two adjacent points and the origin in order (this can also be obtained by clockwise definite integral).

Author: ```suggestion
- The number of points covered by the line segment with the integral point as the vertex is $\gcd(\textit{dx},\textit{dy})$ , where $\textit{dx} and \textit{dy}$ are respectively the number of points covered by line horizontally and vertically. If $\textit{dx}$ or $\textit{dy}$ is $0$ , the number of points covered is $\textit{dy}$ **or** $\textit{dx}$ .
- Pick theorem: The area of a simple polygon with integral points as its vertices on the plane = the number of points on the side/2 + the number of internal points + 1.
- The area of any polygon is equal to the sum of the cross product of the vector composed of two adjacent points and the origin in order (this can also be obtained by clockwise definite integral).
```

## Pick's theorem

> Pick's theorem: Given A simple polygon whose vertices are all integral points, Pick’s theorem proves the relationship between its area ${\displaystyle A}$ , the number of internal points ${\displaystyle i}$ , and the number of points on the edge ${\displaystyle b}$ : ${\displaystyle A=i+{\frac {b}{2}}-1}$ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pick's theorem: Given a simple polygon whose vertices are all integral points, Pick’s theorem proves the relationship between its area ${\displaystyle A}$ , the number of internal points ${\displaystyle i}$ , and the number of points on the edge ${\displaystyle b}$ : ${\displaystyle A=i+{\frac {b}{2}}-1}$ .
```

This topic includes the following three key points:

> - The number of points covered by the line segment with the integral point as the vertex is $\gcd(\textit{dx},\textit{dy})$ , where $\textit{dx} and \textit{dy}$ are respectively the number of points covered by line horizontally and vertically. If $\textit{dx}$ or $\textit{dy}$ is $0$ , the number of points covered is $\textit{dy}$ **or** $\textit{dx}$ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The number of points covered by the line segment with integral points as the vertex is $\gcd(\textit{dx},\textit{dy})$ , where $\textit{dx} and \textit{dy}$ are the number of points covered by line horizontally and vertically, respectively. If $\textit{dx}$ or $\textit{dy}$ is $0$, the number of points covered is $\textit{dy}$ **or** $\textit{dx}$ .
```

> - Pick theorem: The area of a simple polygon with integral points as its vertices on the plane = the number of points on the side/2 + the number of internal points + 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pick theorem: The area of a simple polygon with integral points as its vertices on the plane = the number of points on the side / 2 + the number of internal points + 1.
```
